The 98th Academy Awards ceremony, presented by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), will take place on March 15, 2026, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, Los Angeles. During the gala, the AMPAS will present Academy Awards (commonly referred to as Oscars) in 24 categories, honoring films released in 2025. The ceremony will be televised in the United States by ABC and streamed on Hulu. Comedian Conan O'Brien is set to host the show for the second consecutive time after receiving universal acclaim for hosting the previous year, with Raj Kapoor and Katy Mullan returning as executive producers for the third consecutive year.


In related events, the Academy held its 16th Governors Awards ceremony at the Ray Dolby Ballroom of the Ovation Hollywood complex in Hollywood on November 16, 2025. The Academy Scientific and Technical Awards will be presented on April 28, 2026, in a ceremony at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles.


This year, Best Casting will be presented as a new category, bringing the total number of competitive Oscar categories to 24.


Key dates

Winners and nominees

The nominees for the 98th Academy Awards were announced on January 22, 2026, at the Samuel Goldwyn Theater in Beverly Hills, by actress Danielle Brooks and actor Lewis Pullman.


The sixteen nominations received by Sinners are the most in Oscar history, surpassing the previous record of fourteen shared by All About Eve (1950), Titanic (1997), and La La Land (2016). It also broke the record for most Black individuals nominated for a single film at ten.


Wagner Moura became the first Brazilian nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role. At the age of 30, Timothée Chalamet became the youngest actor to earn three acting nominations since Marlon Brando. At the age of 37, Emma Stone, nominated for Best Picture and Best Actress in a Leading Role, became the second-youngest person in Oscar history to reach seven career nominations (after Walt Disney). Stellan Skarsgård became the first actor nominated for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for a non-English-language international film. Autumn Durald Arkapaw became the first woman of color nominated for Best Cinematography. Chloé Zhao became the second woman, following Jane Campion, and the first woman of color to be nominated for Best Directing twice.


Awards

Winners will be listed first, highlighted in boldface, and indicated with a double dagger (‡).


Governors Awards

The Academy held its 16th annual Governors Awards ceremony on November 16, 2025, during which the following awards were presented:


Academy Honorary Awards

Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award

Films with multiple nominations

Ceremony information

Beginning with this ceremony, the Academy will begin enforcing rules ensuring that all members have watched every nominated film in each category before voting in the final round.


In March 2025, the Academy hired television producers Raj Kapoor and Katy Mullan, for the third year in a row, to oversee production of the 2026 ceremony, with comedian and former talk show host Conan O'Brien as host of the event for the second consecutive year. Jeff Ross and Mike Sweeney, long-time collaborators of O'Brien, will also return as producers for a second time; Sweeney will also serve as a writer. "We are thrilled to bring back Conan, Raj, Katy, Jeff, and Mike for the 98th Oscars," said AMPAS CEO Bill Kramer and AMPAS President Janet Yang in a press release. " year, they produced a hugely entertaining and visually stunning show that celebrated our nominees and the global film community in the most beautiful and impactful way. Conan was the perfect host — skillfully guiding us through the evening with humor, warmth and reverence. It is an honor to be working with them again." In response, Kapoor and Mullan stated in a press release, "We are both so honored to be returning in our roles for the 98th Oscars. We can't wait to work with Conan and his entire team as we continue to explore even more special and heartfelt opportunities to celebrate next year's nominees and the impact of film around the world."


Expansion

Beginning with this ceremony, the AMPAS will present a new competitive award that will honor casting directors. The Academy Award for Best Casting is the first new Oscar category introduced since Best Animated Feature in 2001. On February 8, 2024, the AMPAS announced the creation of the category, stating: "Casting directors play an essential role in filmmaking, and as the Academy evolves, we are proud to add casting to the disciplines that we recognize and celebrate." Nominees will be determined by the Casting Directors Branch within the Academy, which was established in July 2013 and totaled nearly 160 members at the time of the award's announcement. A category to award achievement in casting had previously been rejected by the Academy in 1999.


See also

References

External links

Other resources


